README.md, before:

# Cybersecurity Assessment Tool

[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)](https://reactjs.org/)
[![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)](https://tailwindcss.com/)
[![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-646CFF?style=for-the-badge&logo=vite&logoColor=white)](https://vitejs.dev/)

> A comprehensive, modern cybersecurity assessment application built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. Designed for security professionals to conduct thorough organizational cybersecurity evaluations.

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Assessment Framework](#assessment-framework)
- [API Reference](#api-reference)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Features

### Core Functionality
- **Real-time Scoring**: Dynamic security score calculation with comprehensive risk analysis
- **Auto-save**: Automatic data persistence to localStorage
- **Export/Import**: JSON export functionality for assessment data
- **Reset Functionality**: One-click reset with confirmation dialog
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first design optimized for all devices

### Assessment Coverage
- **15 Comprehensive Sections** covering all aspects of cybersecurity
- **Risk-based Scoring** with High, Medium, Low, and Informational categories
- **Progress Tracking** with visual indicators and completion rates
- **Interactive Navigation** with collapsible sections and intuitive UI

### Modern Development
- **TypeScript** for type safety and better developer experience
- **React 18** with modern hooks and context API
- **Tailwind CSS** for utility-first styling
- **Vite** for lightning-fast development and builds

## Screenshots

> *Screenshots coming soon - showing the modern UI, progress tracking, and assessment interface*

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/cybersecurity-assessment-tool.git

# Navigate to the project directory
cd cybersecurity-assessment-tool

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) to view it in the browser.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18.0 or higher
- **npm** 8.0 or higher (or yarn)

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/cybersecurity-assessment-tool.git
   cd cybersecurity-assessment-tool
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## Usage

### Starting an Assessment

1. **Enter Client Information**
   - Fill in client name, assessment date, and assessor name in the header
   - Data is automatically saved as you type

2. **Navigate Through Sections**
   - Use the navigation buttons to move between sections
   - Complete questions by selecting answers and providing findings
   - Risk levels are automatically calculated based on responses

3. **Track Progress**
   - Monitor completion percentage in the progress bar
   - View real-time security score updates
   - See risk distribution (High, Medium, Low)

### Using the Reset Function

1. **Locate Reset Button**
   - Find the "Reset Assessment" button in the header (rotate icon)
   - Located next to the risk indicators

2. **Confirm Reset**
   - Click the reset button to open confirmation dialog
   - Review the warning about data loss
   - Choose "Cancel" to keep progress or "Reset Assessment" to proceed

> ⚠️ **Warning**: Resetting will permanently delete all progress, answers, and findings. This action cannot be undone.

### Exporting Results

1. **Complete Assessment**
   - Finish all sections to generate comprehensive results
   - Review the summary modal for key findings

2. **Export Data**
   - Click "Export" to download JSON file
   - File includes all assessment data, scores, and metadata

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/              # React components
│   ├── Header.tsx          # Application header with client info
│   ├── ProgressBar.tsx     # Progress tracking component
│   ├── Navigation.tsx      # Section navigation
│   ├── MainContent.tsx     # Main content area
│   ├── QuestionItem.tsx    # Individual question component
│   ├── QuestionGroup.tsx   # Question grouping
│   ├── QuestionsContainer.tsx # Questions container
│   ├── SectionHeader.tsx   # Section headers
│   ├── SectionFooter.tsx   # Section footers
│   └── SummaryModal.tsx    # Assessment summary modal
├── context/                # React context for state management
│   └── AssessmentContext.tsx
├── data/                   # Static data
│   └── sections.ts        # Assessment sections and questions
├── types/                  # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── index.ts
├── test/                   # Test setup
│   └── setup.ts
└── main.tsx               # Application entry point
```

## Assessment Framework

### Assessment Sections

| Section | Description | Key Areas |
|---------|-------------|-----------|
| **1. Organizational & Governance** | Leadership and governance structures | Policies, roles, accountability |
| **2. Risk Management Process** | Risk identification and management | Risk assessment, mitigation strategies |
| **3. Asset Management** | Asset classification and protection | Inventory, classification, handling |
| **4. Access Control** | Identity and access management | Authentication, authorization, privileges |
| **5. Network Security** | Network infrastructure protection | Firewalls, segmentation, monitoring |
| **6. Endpoint Security** | Endpoint protection and management | Antivirus, patching, device management |
| **7. Application Security** | Secure development practices | SDLC, testing, secure coding |
| **8. Physical Security** | Physical access controls | Facilities, equipment, environmental |
| **9. Incident Response** | Incident handling procedures | Detection, response, recovery |
| **10. Business Continuity** | Disaster recovery planning | Backup, recovery, continuity |
| **11. Security Awareness** | Training and education | Awareness programs, phishing |
| **12. Logging & Monitoring** | Security monitoring and logging | SIEM, logging, alerting |
| **13. Cloud Security** | Cloud security controls | Cloud governance, shared responsibility |
| **14. Emerging Threats** | Threat landscape awareness | Threat intelligence, adaptation |
| **15. Final Review** | Assessment summary and planning | Findings, recommendations, action plan |

### Scoring Methodology

- **Dynamic Scoring**: Real-time calculation based on responses
- **Risk Weighting**: Different risk levels affect scoring multipliers
- **Section Breakdown**: Individual scores for each assessment area
- **Overall Security Score**: Comprehensive security posture rating

## Available Scripts

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start development server |
| `npm run build` | Build for production |
| `npm run preview` | Preview production build |
| `npm run test` | Run test suite |
| `npm run test:ui` | Run tests with UI |
| `npm run lint` | Run ESLint |
| `npm run type-check` | Run TypeScript type checking |

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
npm run test

# Run tests with UI
npm run test:ui

# Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:watch
```

## Browser Support

- **Chrome** 90+
- **Firefox** 88+
- **Safari** 14+
- **Edge** 90+

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature
   ```
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Add tests** for new functionality
5. **Run tests** to ensure everything works
   ```bash
   npm run test
   npm run lint
   ```
6. **Commit your changes**
   ```bash
   git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'
   ```
7. **Push to the branch**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/amazing-feature
   ```
8. **Open a Pull Request**

### Development Guidelines

- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Use meaningful commit messages
- Add tests for new features
- Ensure responsive design
- Follow the existing code style

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- Styled with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- Icons by [Lucide React](https://lucide.dev/)
- Bundled with [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)

## Support

If you have any questions or need help, please:

1. Check the [Issues](https://github.com/yourusername/cybersecurity-assessment-tool/issues) page
2. Create a new issue with detailed information
3. Contact the maintainers

---

<div align="center">
  <strong>Built for the cybersecurity community</strong>
</div>

Commit message:

Add export functionality for assessment reports: implement options for PDF, HTML, JSON, and CSV formats. Update UI to allow users to select export type from the summary modal. Enhance README with new export features and options.

README.md, after:

# Cybersecurity Assessment Tool

[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)](https://reactjs.org/)
[![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)](https://tailwindcss.com/)
[![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-646CFF?style=for-the-badge&logo=vite&logoColor=white)](https://vitejs.dev/)

> A comprehensive, modern cybersecurity assessment application built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. Designed for security professionals to conduct thorough organizational cybersecurity evaluations.

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Assessment Framework](#assessment-framework)
- [API Reference](#api-reference)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Features

### Core Functionality
- **Real-time Scoring**: Dynamic security score calculation with comprehensive risk analysis
- **Auto-save**: Automatic data persistence to localStorage
- **Export/Import**: JSON export functionality for assessment data
- **Reset Functionality**: One-click reset with confirmation dialog
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first design optimized for all devices

### Assessment Coverage
- **15 Comprehensive Sections** covering all aspects of cybersecurity
- **Risk-based Scoring** with High, Medium, Low, and Informational categories
- **Progress Tracking** with visual indicators and completion rates
- **Interactive Navigation** with collapsible sections and intuitive UI

### Modern Development
- **TypeScript** for type safety and better developer experience
- **React 18** with modern hooks and context API
- **Tailwind CSS** for utility-first styling
- **Vite** for lightning-fast development and builds

## Screenshots

> *Screenshots coming soon - showing the modern UI, progress tracking, and assessment interface*

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/cybersecurity-assessment-tool.git

# Navigate to the project directory
cd cybersecurity-assessment-tool

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) to view it in the browser.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18.0 or higher
- **npm** 8.0 or higher (or yarn)

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/cybersecurity-assessment-tool.git
   cd cybersecurity-assessment-tool
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## Usage

### Starting an Assessment

1. **Enter Client Information**
   - Fill in client name, assessment date, and assessor name in the header
   - Data is automatically saved as you type

2. **Navigate Through Sections**
   - Use the navigation buttons to move between sections
   - Complete questions by selecting answers and providing findings
   - Risk levels are automatically calculated based on responses

3. **Track Progress**
   - Monitor completion percentage in the progress bar
   - View real-time security score updates
   - See risk distribution (High, Medium, Low)

### Using the Reset Function

1. **Locate Reset Button**
   - Find the "Reset Assessment" button in the header (rotate icon)
   - Located next to the risk indicators

2. **Confirm Reset**
   - Click the reset button to open confirmation dialog
   - Review the warning about data loss
   - Choose "Cancel" to keep progress or "Reset Assessment" to proceed

> ⚠️ **Warning**: Resetting will permanently delete all progress, answers, and findings. This action cannot be undone.

### Exporting Results

1. **Complete Assessment**
   - Finish all sections to generate comprehensive results
   - Review the summary modal for key findings

2. **Export Options**
   - **PDF Report**: Professional formatted report with executive summary, scores, and recommendations
   - **HTML Report**: Styled web report that can be viewed in browsers or shared with clients
   - **JSON Data**: Enhanced structured data export with metadata and analysis
   - **CSV Data**: Spreadsheet format for data analysis and reporting

3. **Export Features**
   - Multiple format options for different use cases
   - Professional formatting for client presentations
   - Comprehensive data analysis and recommendations
   - Executive summary with risk assessment
   - Section-by-section scoring breakdown

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/              # React components
│   ├── Header.tsx          # Application header with client info
│   ├── ProgressBar.tsx     # Progress tracking component
│   ├── Navigation.tsx      # Section navigation
│   ├── MainContent.tsx     # Main content area
│   ├── QuestionItem.tsx    # Individual question component
│   ├── QuestionGroup.tsx   # Question grouping
│   ├── QuestionsContainer.tsx # Questions container
│   ├── SectionHeader.tsx   # Section headers
│   ├── SectionFooter.tsx   # Section footers
│   └── SummaryModal.tsx    # Assessment summary modal
├── context/                # React context for state management
│   └── AssessmentContext.tsx
├── data/                   # Static data
│   └── sections.ts        # Assessment sections and questions
├── types/                  # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── index.ts
├── test/                   # Test setup
│   └── setup.ts
└── main.tsx               # Application entry point
```

## Assessment Framework

### Assessment Sections

| Section | Description | Key Areas |
|---------|-------------|-----------|
| **1. Organizational & Governance** | Leadership and governance structures | Policies, roles, accountability |
| **2. Risk Management Process** | Risk identification and management | Risk assessment, mitigation strategies |
| **3. Asset Management** | Asset classification and protection | Inventory, classification, handling |
| **4. Access Control** | Identity and access management | Authentication, authorization, privileges |
| **5. Network Security** | Network infrastructure protection | Firewalls, segmentation, monitoring |
| **6. Endpoint Security** | Endpoint protection and management | Antivirus, patching, device management |
| **7. Application Security** | Secure development practices | SDLC, testing, secure coding |
| **8. Physical Security** | Physical access controls | Facilities, equipment, environmental |
| **9. Incident Response** | Incident handling procedures | Detection, response, recovery |
| **10. Business Continuity** | Disaster recovery planning | Backup, recovery, continuity |
| **11. Security Awareness** | Training and education | Awareness programs, phishing |
| **12. Logging & Monitoring** | Security monitoring and logging | SIEM, logging, alerting |
| **13. Cloud Security** | Cloud security controls | Cloud governance, shared responsibility |
| **14. Emerging Threats** | Threat landscape awareness | Threat intelligence, adaptation |
| **15. Final Review** | Assessment summary and planning | Findings, recommendations, action plan |

### Scoring Methodology

- **Dynamic Scoring**: Real-time calculation based on responses
- **Risk Weighting**: Different risk levels affect scoring multipliers
- **Section Breakdown**: Individual scores for each assessment area
- **Overall Security Score**: Comprehensive security posture rating

## Available Scripts

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start development server |
| `npm run build` | Build for production |
| `npm run preview` | Preview production build |
| `npm run test` | Run test suite |
| `npm run test:ui` | Run tests with UI |
| `npm run lint` | Run ESLint |
| `npm run type-check` | Run TypeScript type checking |

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
npm run test

# Run tests with UI
npm run test:ui

# Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:watch
```

## Browser Support

- **Chrome** 90+
- **Firefox** 88+
- **Safari** 14+
- **Edge** 90+

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature
   ```
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Add tests** for new functionality
5. **Run tests** to ensure everything works
   ```bash
   npm run test
   npm run lint
   ```
6. **Commit your changes**
   ```bash
   git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'
   ```
7. **Push to the branch**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/amazing-feature
   ```
8. **Open a Pull Request**

### Development Guidelines

- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Use meaningful commit messages
- Add tests for new features
- Ensure responsive design
- Follow the existing code style

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- Styled with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- Icons by [Lucide React](https://lucide.dev/)
- Bundled with [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)

## Support

If you have any questions or need help, please:

1. Check the [Issues](https://github.com/yourusername/cybersecurity-assessment-tool/issues) page
2. Create a new issue with detailed information
3. Contact the maintainers

---

<div align="center">
  <strong>Built for the cybersecurity community</strong>
</div>
